q1. What is Run-Length Smoothing Algorithm (RLSA)?
a1: The Run Length Smoothing Algorithm (RLSA) is a method that can 
be used for Block segmentation and text discrimination. The method 
developed for the Document Analysis System consists of two steps. 
First, a segmentation procedure subdivides the area of a document 
into regions (blocks), each of which should contain only one type 
of data (text, graphic, halftone image, etc.). Next, some basic 
features of these blocks are calculated.

q2. What is the X-Y cut algorithm?
a2: X-Y cut algorithm segments the document provided recursively 
in a stores the Segments blocks in a tree like structure to match 
for layout similarity from a dataset.

q3. What are Segmentation Algorithms?
a3: A segmentation algorithm can be viewed as a classification
 algorithm when it lebels the parts that are segmented.

q4. What is the use of Segmentation Algorithms?
a4: Segmentation algorithms can be applied to document 
images, to natural images, to medical images and also 
to 3D meshes.

q5. How many types of identifications of type of contents? Explain.
a5: There are two types of algorithms. They are, physical layout and 
logical layout. The physical layout relates to the nature of context 
such as text, typewritten text, graphics, diagram, picture etc. The 
logical layout relates to the function of context such as header, 
footnote, main body etc.  

q6. What is the main processing step of document analysis relies on?
a6: The main processing of document analysis depends on extracting 
or indexing the text that they contain.

q7. Is there any specific category for historical documents? Explain.
a7: There is no specific category for historical documents. Because 
all the categories on the figure contain both contemporary and 
historical documents.

q8. Why is there no specific category for historical documents?
a8: Defining a specific category for historical documents would 
require.

q9. What are the challenges of surveying technical documents or maps?
a9: The definition of what their layout is, is a challenge and they 
need specific tools to be analyzed.

q10. What are the document image segmentation algorithm type groups?
a10: They are classified into three groups. 1. Top-down 2. Bottom-up 
and 3. Hybrid Algorithm


q11. What are the three main scales of image segmentation algorithms?
a11: The three main scales of image segmentation algorithms are,
Pixels
Connected components
Patches

q12. What is the main limitation of segmentation algorithms?
a12: The main limitation is, A given segmentation algorithm 
may not be able to segment any layout.

q13. What are the subcategories of the algorithms in group one?
a13: The subcategories are,
The algorithms that make clear assumptions about the document layout.
The algorithms that use filtering techniques to make the document regions appear.
The algorithms that try to identify straight lines.

q14. What is the difference between the algorithms of group one and group two?
a14: The main difference is, The group two algorithms try to adapt to local 
variations in the document in order to be able to segment a border range of 
layouts with the same algorithm.

q15. What are the clustering algorithms?
a15: They are bottom up algorithms and try to cluster elements based on 
geometric or texture or a more general 185 set of features.

q16. What are the algorithms based on function analysis?
a16: They mostly rely on function optimization e.g. trying to bring a 
function as close as possible to an objective value.

q17. What are the classification algorithms?
a17: they are trained to recognize the different types of elements 
based on a given set of features. As a consequence they need training 
and produce labeled elements. 195 The regions are made of adjacent 
elements having the same label hence they are bottom up algorithms.

q18. What algorithms are in group three?
a18: They try to overcome the limitations of the other algorithms 
by combining them or by using artificial intelligence. Thus they 
cannot be considered 200 as bottom-up or top-down algorithms.

q19. What are the subcategories of group three?
a19:  1. The hybrid algorithms combine several other algorithms 
in symbiosis: While they could potentially accumulate the strength 
of several other algorithms, some of them tend to be very complex 
without significant performance or versatility improvement.
2. The combination algorithm combines the results of several algorithms 
to effectively improve them.
3. The neural network algorithms make use of artificial intelligence 
to automatically learn significant features and perform the required task.

q20. What is the layout constrained by the group one algorithm?
a20: The algorithms in this group are such that their internal mechanisms limit the variety
of layouts that they can segment.
Segmentation based on document structure assumption.
Segmentation based on filtering algorithms.
Segmentation based on straight line identification algorithms.

q21. What is the layout constrained by the group two parameters?
a21. Segmentation based on clustering.
Segmentation based on function analysis.
Segmentation based on classification.

q22. What is the layout potentially unconstrained of group three?
a22. Segmentation based on hybrid techniques.
Segmentation based on algorithm combination.
Segmentation based on neural networks.

q23. What are the remarks on the applicability of the surveyed algorithms?
a23. All segmentation algorithms are script independent e.g. their per565 
formance does not depend on the language of the document. Many algorithms 
working on binary images assume that the image is the result of a thresholding 
process similar to Otsu binarization.

q24.  How was the evaluation of segmentation algorithms done?
a24. Evaluating and comparing the performance of an algorithm is a dicult task. 
The authors summarized here the current state of the art for the evaluation of 
document segmentation algorithms. A first remark that can be made in the light 
of all the surveyed papers is that many authors tend to compare their algorithms 
with other algorithms based on 605 the same technique.

q25. What is the segmentation in document image analysis?
a25. In document image analysis, segmentation is the task that identifies the 
regions of a document. The increasing number of applications of document 
analysis requires a good knowledge of the available technologies.

q26. Name two of the first document segmentation algorithms.
a26. Some first document image segmentation algorithms are,
Run-Length Smoothing Algorithm (RLSA)
X-Y Cut algorithm

q27. What is the scope of the survey for the paper?
a27. There are mainly three scopes of this survey,
The Scientific Scope
The Document Scope
The Publication Scope

q28. What is the scientific Scope of this survey?
a28. Segmentation algorithms can be applied to document images but also to a set of
document images, to natural 40 images, to medical images and even to 3D meshes. 
More generally a segmentation algorithm can be viewed as a specific kind of clustering 
or partitioning algorithm or of classification algorithm when it labels the parts 
that are segmented.

q29. What are the two types of identifications?
a29. The identifications are,
The Physical Layout
The Logical Layout

q30. What does the physical layout relate to?
a30. The physical layout relates to the nature of the content such as text, typewritten text,
graphics, diagrams, pictures, decoration, etc.

q31. What does the logical layout relate to?
a31. The logical layout relates to the function of the content such as header, 
footnote, main body, etc.

q32. What types of algorithms did the authors focus on?
a32. In this survey the authors focused on algorithms that provide regions without 
labels or with a physical layout labeling.

q33. What are the use of algorithms for Grammer?
a33. There are five algorithms of this type. They were first published in 2006 by 
Co¨uasnon and tested on a data set of 88745 documents which is an unrivaled data 
set size. He designed a layout grammar language called DMOS. This language can 
describe any layout and the associated parser recognizes this layout in an image.

q34. What are the use of algorithms for Projection profiles?
a34. There are 7 algorithms of this type and the two CASIA algorithms published
in. Ouwayed and Belaid use projection profiles to segment multi-240 oriented, 
text only documents. They make a paving of the document with rectangles.
Then they compute the projection profile of each rectangle along several directions.
The direction with the highest maximum ofWigner-Ville distribution is that of the text.

q35. What is Segmentation based on filtering algorithms?
a35. These algorithms usually use specific predefined filters to segment a given type of
content. They frequently rely on assumptions that the text lines are straight and/or
horizontal.

q36. Discuss Mathemathical morphology.
a36. Six algorithms using mathematical morphology have been published. Bockholt
et al. use several combinations of erosion and dilation to eciently identify
successively the pictures, the graphics and the text. While being a basic type of processing
it proves very ecient for the task of document retrieval.265 Ferili et al. 
replace the logical AND of RLSA by an OR. This makes thealgorithm more computationally 
ecient as only one run length is performed. They make the assumption that the 
text is horizontal. An interesting addition is the extensionof the algorithm to 
natively digital documents based on their basic blocks.

q37. What do you mean by Filtering?
q37. The only contribution for this kind of algorithm was done by Shi et al. It
was reused by A2iA in a competition where it was ranked third out of 7 partici275
pants. The method is based on steerable filters to detect text lines along five 
orientations. A heuristic post processing is used to solve the issue of connected 
components spanning several lines.

q38. Explain Segmentation based on straight line identification algorithms.
a38. Three contributions are based on straight line identification. Louloudis
280 et al. split the connected components horizontally into blocks based on the average
character height. This allows the algorithm to work on handwritten text where
several characters are merged into one connected component. However the horizontal
partitioning assumes that the text is also horizontal. Once this partitioning is done, they
apply a Hough transform on the centers of gravity of each block to detect text lines.

q39. What is geometric only clustering?
a39. The vast majority of clustering algorithms uses only geometric
features. Before further classifying them based on the color information level they
305 can process, we can highlight the contribution of the Fraunhofer Institute and the team
of Konya et al. who made several contributions to the field and participated in every
document segmentation competition and won two of them.

q40. What do you mean by black and white algorithms?
a40. Most of them only process black and white images. Liu et al. use a Gaussian 
Mixture model to classify 310 connected component triplets as text or non text. 
They use three geometric features  and thus have trivariate Gaussian distributions. 
The first order neighborhood of a connected component is computed with the Delaunay 
triangulation and they use the second order neighbors to obtain all the possible 
triplets. They also use a specific training called MMS which maximizes the class 
separability.

q41. What does texture only clustering algorithm do?
a41. Three algorithms use only texture features. Journet et al. use
features at pixel level and tested them on both modern and historical documents. They
370 highlight the importance of a multi-resolution approach to reduce the noise in pixel
clustering techniques. Working at pixel level allows the clustering of many dierent
types of objects such as drop caps, a specific kind of graphic, text, text fonts, etc.
Mehri et al demonstrate that Gabor texture features outperform auto-correlation
and co-occurrence texture features.

q42. What is Generic feature clustering?
a42. Six algorithms use several types of features. The most outstanding one
is that of Chen and Wu. Roughly, they cut the document into blocks which are
then multi-thresholded to create several layers. The connected components of each
layer are identified and grouped across blocks based on a predefined set of features.
380 The evaluation data set is small but very challenging as it contains
only magazine covers and advertisements that are multi-layered color documents with
uneven background. They outperform significantly the state of the art and achieve both
precision and recall above 99% for text extraction.

q43. What is Segmentation based on function analysis?
a43. Sixteen algorithms rely on function analysis techniques. They have the advantage
that, based on the “flexibility” of the functions, one can select how much they will
follow the contours of the elements to segment. This can be helpful if we want to have
390 a rough outline of the document regions or if we want to segment precise elements such
as warped text lines.

q44. Explain Active contours.
a44. All these techniques were proposed by Bukhari et al. Their work can be
considered as the state of the art for text line extraction based on active contours. It
395 works by adding coupled snakelets on the top and bottom of a connected component 
and by deforming them based on the vertical component of the gradient vector flow. 
The snakelets are then extended laterally in order to include neighboring connected 
components. This algorithm has been evaluated on 10 dierent scripts in.

q45. What is Function optimization?
a45. Seven algorithms use function optimization. They usually define
a cost or energy function which needs to be minimized. So far, they work best
for text line segmentation although the ISPL method was second in the last ICDAR
document segmentation competition. The state of the art with this technique is
405 held by Ryu et al. which also won the ICDAR 2013 Competition for handwriting
segmentation and 2015 Competition on text line detection. Their contribution
resides in over-segmenting connected components that do not fit a normalization
criteria. From this they obtain a better estimation of the belonging of each connected
component to a given text line which in turn allows them to build a better cost function.
410 The optimization of this function is improved with dynamic programming. The over
segmented components are then merged into proper components.

q46. What is the use of Probabilistic layout estimation?
a46. Two algorithms make a probabilistic estimation of the layout but do not
bring a significant improvement. Yin and Liu perform an estimation of the number
of text lines with a blur filter and then use a variational Bayes approach to segment the
image rescaled at 75 dpi. This improves slightly the state of the art on a large but not
425 very challenging data set. Cruz and Terrades proposed a method based on Conditional 
Random Field (CRF) and location features similar to but without  any improvement over 
the state of the art. This work is at the crossing between optimizing a probabilistic 
layout estimation and a classification.

q47. What is the use of Segmentation based on classification?
a47. This is the second most popular type of algorithms with 30 algorithms. A noticeable
dierence in the scientific work when compared with the clustering is the fact that
classification algorithms all require training.

q48. What is Texture classification?
a48. Three algorithms use only texture features. Baechler and Ingold string 
together three Dynamic Multi-Layer Perceptrons (DMLP) at three resolutions to
segment historical documents. Each DMLP uses the label output of the DMLP at a
lower resolution plus texture features at its resolution. Each level processes only part
of the labels produced by the lower level in order to refine these specific labels.

q49. Explain Feature classification.
a49. Among them, 12 use only binary images. Peng and Pinson focus on extracting overlapping handwritten and typewritten
text. Pinson and Barret’s algorithm automatically selects the appropriate features
445 based on the desired typewritten text classification accuracy. It selects the first 100 feature
vectors of a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of the character images. Then
any new text is projected into this new space. If it is close enough to the typewritten
or the handwritten templates then it is classified appropriately. Otherwise it is considered
as made of several touching characters and split with a graph-cut thus making two
450 new connected components to classify. They achieve 98% precision for typewritten
text and 71% precision for handwritten text on 500 forms each coming from a dierent
writer. The low handwritten precision is related to the training set that did not contain
typewritten text of a small size. As a result small typewritten fonts were classified as
handwritten. Replacing the small font size in the test set brings the precisions to 94%
455 and 89% respectively. This highlights the limits of the training set and the versatility
of the algorithm with respect to the writing style.

q50. What is sagmentation based on hybrid techniques?
a50. A large majority of them make several techniques work in symbiosis to obtain better
520 results. The most recent significant work was the MHS method developed by Tran et al. 
which won the last ICDAR complex document segmentation competition. It works by iteratively 
classifying connected components based on multi-level homogenous regions and white space analysis.